---
layout:      wide
title:       Introducing Support for Microsoft OneDrive
excerpt:     You can now use Globus to access Stanford University files stored in Microsoft OneDrive!  Read on for instructions and limitations.
---

We are happy to announce that, starting today, you can access Microsoft
OneDrive files through Globus!

For detailed information about Globus & Microsoft OneDrive, with limitations
and instructions, check out our [detailed instructions]({{
"cloud/onedrive.html" | relative_url }}).

If you just want to get started quickly, see our quick start on the [Globus &
the Cloud]({{ "cloud.html#microsoft-onedrive" | relative_url }}) page.

Everyone with a full (or full-sponsored) SUNetID at Stanford has access to 100
GB of OneDrive storage (though that may have changed since this posts's
publication).  Although this is not enough storage for many researcher's needs,
it is enough for simple collaboration with others.

Globus supports accessing files in your own OneDrive, files in Stanford
University SharePoint sites, and files that have been shared with you *by other
Stanford University members*.  Unfortunately, **Globus cannot access files
shared from people outside of Stanford University**.  If you are collaborating
with folks outside of Stanford University, you should host the share: Create a
folder within OneDrive, share that with outside collaborators, and use Globus
to transfer files to/from that folder.

### Got Questions?

If you have problems accessing Microsoft OneDrive through Globus, you should
first make sure you can [access OneDrive]() directly.  If that works, check out
[our support options]({{ "support.html" | relative_url }}) to learn how to get
help.

### Thanks for the Support!

As always, we appreeicate those who provide the funding to make this possible:
Stanford University IT, Stanford University Libraries, and the Genetics
Bioinformatics Service Center in the School of Medicine.  Thank You!
